Most of the platform specific gotchas should be mentioned in the
README.1ST notes.  Here are some extra ones, which don't prevent
you from running W, but can be otherwise bothersome.  You should
also take a look at the TODO file.

Q: I have trouble running W or it doesn't work right.

A: See the TROUBLESHOOTING and platform specific notes in README.1ST,
   and (in case of minor trouble) browse the BUGS and TODO files to
   see whether your problem/workaround is already known.


Q: I can't move windows I created in my W program code!

A: Add W_MOVE flag to window creation attributes (don't know why
   it's off by default...).


Q: Programs don't work properly in WTerm.  Why?

A: Do 'echo $TERM' in wterm (or wvt) window.  If the answer isn't
   'wterm', it's value has been changed after WTerm was run.  One
   possible culprit (at least on my RedHat 5.2) is 'SYSTERM' variable
   which presence will override $TERM.  In that case you could add
   'SYSTERM=wterm' line to your ~/.wrc configuration file and re-run
   W server.


Q: When I run the fbdev version of W, it's output is partly outside
   the screen.  How this can be fixed?

A: Pipe W messages (like "can't start wcpyrgt") either to a file
   or /dev/null.  With Bash-shell you could use something like this:
   	wserver > ~/.w-errors 2>&1

   This should happen only when your console uses a virtual screen
   and using GPM to do mouse stuff (It prevents me from fixing this).
   Outputting text to console instead of W changes the framebuffer
   virtual screen y-offset.


Q: My wterm cursor sometimes disappears in the color mode, why?

A: Atari packed driver inverse graphics mode just inverts the color
   index, unfortunately in your case it then happens to point to a
   palette entry whose color doesn't provide enough contrast.  One
   solution would be to set all color entries in your wrc file to
   something distinctive.


Q: Sometimes there's a slight pause after AltGR key combination, why?

A: It seems that for some reason under STonX emulator we'll then go to
   mouse reading function...  If somebody could shed some light on this
   (or test mevent_read() under real Atari), I'd be grateful.


	- Eero
